Learning CodeQL: Add new library modeling guide (Go) (#3888)
github/codeql: docs/language/learn-ql/go/library-modeling-go.rst

if extending ``DataFlow::FunctionModel``). The body should constrain
``inp`` and ``outp``.

``FunctionInput`` is an abstract representation of the inputs to a
function. The options are:

* the receiver (``inp.isReceiver()``)
* one of the parameters (``inp.isParameter(i)``)
* one of the results (``inp.isResult(i)``, or ``inp.isResult`` if there is only one result)

Note that it may seem strange that the result of a function could be
considered as a function input, but it is needed in some cases. For
instance, the function ``bufio.NewWriter`` returns a writer ``bw`` that
buffers write operations to an underlying writer ``w``. If tainted data
is written to ``bw``, then it makes sense to propagate that taint back
to the underlying writer ``w``, which can be modeled by saying that
``bufio.NewWriter`` propagates taint from its result to its first
argument.

Similarly, ``FunctionOutput`` is an abstract representation of the
outputs to a function. The options are:

* the receiver (``outp.isReceiver()``)
* one of the parameters (``outp.isParameter(i)``)
* one of the results (``outp.isResult(i)``, or ``outp.isResult`` if there is only one result)

> Here is an example from ``Gin.qll``, slightly modified for brevity.

Reviewer: I think we should be avoiding uncommon words to help future localization.

```suggestion
Here is an example from ``Gin.qll``, which has been slightly simplified.
```

.. code-block:: ql

   private class ParamsGet extends TaintTracking::FunctionModel, Method {
     ParamsGet() { this.hasQualifiedName("github.com/gin-gonic/gin", "Params", "Get") }

     override predicate hasTaintFlow(FunctionInput inp, FunctionOutput outp) {
       inp.isReceiver() and outp.isResult(0)
     }
   }

This has the effect that calls to the ``Get`` method with receiver type
``Params`` from the ``gin-gonic/gin`` package allow taint to flow from
the receiver to the first result. In other words, if ``p`` has type
``Params`` and taint can flow to it, then after the line
``x := p.Get("foo")`` taint can also flow to ``x``.

Sanitizers
----------

> It is not necessary to indicate that library functions are sanitizers -
> because their bodies are not analyzed it is assumed that data does not
> flow through them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is not necessary to indicate that library functions are sanitizers.
Their bodies are not analyzed, so it is assumed that data does not
flow through them.
```

Sinks
-----

Data-flow sinks are specified by queries rather than by library models.
However, you can use library models to indicate when functions belong to
special categories. Queries can then use these categories when specifying
sinks. Classes representing these special categories are contained in
``ql/src/semmle/go/Concepts.qll`` in the `CodeQL for Go repository

> <https://github.com/github/codeql-go/blob/main/ql/src/semmle/go/Concepts.qll>`__,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<https://github.com/github/codeql-go/blob/main/ql/src/semmle/go/Concepts.qll>`__.
```

> including classes for logger mechanisms,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``Concepts.qll`` includes classes for logger mechanisms,
```

HTTP response writers, HTTP redirects, and marshaling and unmarshaling
functions.

> Here is a short example from ``Stdlib.qll``, slightly modified for
> brevity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is a short example from ``Stdlib.qll``, which has been slightly simplified.
```
